---
title: Get Capacity overview events in Fabric Real-Time hub
description: This article describes how to get Fabric capacity overview events as an eventstream in Fabric Real-Time hub. 
ms.reviewer: geguirgu
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 11/17/2025
ms.custom: references_regions
---

# Get Fabric capacity overview events in Real-Time hub

This article describes how to get Fabric capacity overview events as an eventstream in Fabric Real-Time hub.

Fabric capacity overview events are events generated by a Fabric capacity that report utilization status, state changes, and allocation updates

With Fabric eventstreams, you can capture these Fabric capacity events, transform them, and route them to various destinations in Fabric for further analysis. This seamless integration of Fabric capacity events within Fabric eventstreams gives you greater flexibility for monitoring and analyzing activities in your Fabric capacity.

## Event types
Here are the supported Capacity overview events:

| Event type name | Description |
| --------------- | ----------- |
| Microsoft.Fabric.Capacity.Summary | Emitted every 30 seconds to summarize the capacity usage across all operations during that interval. |
| Microsoft.Fabric.Capacity.State | Emitted when a capacity’s state changes. For example, when a capacity is paused or resumed. |

For more information, see [Explore Capacity overview events](explore-fabric-capacity-overview-events.md).

[!INCLUDE [consume-fabric-events-regions](./includes/consume-fabric-events-regions.md)]

## Prerequisites

- Access to a workspace in the Fabric capacity license mode (or) the Trial license mode with Contributor or higher permissions.  
- A Fabric capacity where you have capacity admin role.

## Create streams for Fabric capacity overview events

You can create streams for Fabric capacity overview events in Real-Time hub using one of the ways:

- [Using the **Data sources** page](#data-sources-page)
- [Using the **Fabric events** page](#fabric-events-page)

## Data sources page

[!INCLUDE [launch-get-events-experience](./includes/launch-get-events-experience.md)]

5. On the **Data sources** page, select **Fabric events** category at the top, and then select **Connect** on the **Capacity overview events** tile.

    Now, use instructions from the [Configure and create an eventstream](#configure-and-create-an-eventstream) section.

## Fabric events page

1. In Real-Time hub, select **Fabric events** on the left navigation menu.
1. Move the mouse over **Capacity overview events**, and select the **+** (plus) link, or select **... (ellipsis)** and then select **Create Eventstream**.

    Now, use instructions from the [Configure and create an eventstream](#configure-and-create-an-eventstream) section, but skip the first step of using the **Add source** page.

## Configure and create an eventstream

1. On the **Connect** page, for **Event types**, select the event types that you want to monitor.
1. This step is optional. To see the schemas for event types,  select **View selected event type schemas**. If you select it, browse through schemas for the events, and then navigate back to previous page by selecting the backward arrow button at the top. 
1. For **Event scope**, confirm that **By capacity** is selected. 
1. In **Capacity**,  select the **capacity** for which you want to receive the events.
1. Now, on the **Configure connection settings** page, you can add filters to set the filter conditions by selecting fields to watch and the alert value. To add a filter:
    1. Select **+ Filter**. 
    1. Select a field.
    1. Select an operator.
    1. Select one or more values to match. 
1. In the **Stream details** section, follow these steps.
    1. Select the **workspace** where you want to save the eventstream.
    1. Enter a **name for the eventstream**. The **Stream name** is automatically generated for you.
1. Then, select **Next** at the bottom of the page.
1. On the **Review + connect** page, review settings, and select **Create source**.
1. When the wizard succeeds in creating a stream, on the **Review + connect** page, if you select **Open eventstream**, the wizard opens the eventstream that it created for you. To close the wizard, select **Finish** at the bottom of the page.

## View stream from the Real-Time hub page
Select **Real-Time hub** on the left navigation menu, and confirm that you see the stream you created. Refresh the page if you don't see it. 

For detailed steps, see [View details of data streams in Fabric Real-Time hub](view-data-stream-details.md).

## Related content

To learn about consuming data streams, see the following articles:

- [Process data streams](process-data-streams-using-transformations.md)
- [Analyze data streams](analyze-data-streams-using-kql-table-queries.md)
- [Set alerts on data streams](set-alerts-data-streams.md)

