---
title: Fabric and Azure events capacity consumption
description: Learn how to monitor capacity consumption for Fabric events.
author: george-guirguis
ms.author: geguirgu
ms.topic: how-to 
ms.date: 11/18/2024
ms.search.form: Monitor Fabric events capacity consumption
---

# Microsoft Fabric and Azure events capacity consumption

Fabric and Azure events capability is available through Fabric Real-Time hub or Fabric eventstreams. It enables you to listen and react to alerts and notifications in real-time. You can trigger downstream actions and send events to various destinations to automate workflows. This article contains information on how Fabric and Azure events usage is billed and reported. 

> [!NOTE]
> In this article, Fabric events refer to both events generated within Fabric and also Azure events. 

When you use a Fabric capacity, your usage charges appear in the Azure portal under your subscription in [Microsoft Cost Management](/azure/cost-management-billing/cost-management-billing-overview). To understand your Fabric billing, visit [Understand your Azure bill on a Fabric capacity](../enterprise/azure-billing.md).


## Operation types
Fabric and Azure events usage is defined by two operation types, which are described in the following table. The table provides information about Fabric and Azure events operations shown in the Fabric Capacity Metrics app and their Fabric consumption rates. For more information about the app, see [Microsoft Fabric Capacity Metrics app](../enterprise/metrics-app.md).
 

| Operation in Capacity Metrics App | Description | Operation unit of measure | Fabric consumption rate |
| --------------------------------- | ----------- | ------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Event operations | Publish, delivery, and filtering operations | Per event operation<sup>**[Note 1](#Note-1)**</sup> | 0.000011111 CU Hour |
| Event listener | Uptime of the event listener | Per hour | 0.0222 CU Hour |

* <a id="Note-1"></a>**Note 1**. Events are counted in 64-KB chunks. For example, if the size of the event is 100 KB, this event is counted as two event operations.

### Event operations

Event operations represent operations for publish, filtering, and delivery of events. For Fabric and Azure events generated by Fabric, the publishing operation charge doesn’t kick in until a consumer is established for these events. The publish operations are charged to the publisher’s capacity, while the filtering and delivery operations are charged to the consumer’s capacity.
 
For example, when a Fabric [!INCLUDE [fabric-activator](../real-time-intelligence/includes/fabric-activator.md)] trigger is created to take an action on a workspace item event, the source workspace’s capacity is charged for the publish operations, and the [!INCLUDE [fabric-activator](../real-time-intelligence/includes/fabric-activator.md)]’s capacity is charged for the filtering and delivery operations. 


### Event listener 
This meter kicks in when a consumer is created for Fabric and Azure events and is charged to the consumer’s capacity. For example when an [!INCLUDE [fabric-activator](../real-time-intelligence/includes/fabric-activator.md)] trigger is created to act on an event, this meter is charged per hour during the existence of this trigger.

### Fabric and Azure events operations in the Microsoft Fabric Capacity Metrics app

The Microsoft Fabric Capacity Metrics app is designed to provide monitoring capabilities for Microsoft Fabric capacities. Use the app to monitor your capacity consumption and make informed decisions on how to use your capacity resources. For example, the app can help identify when to scale up your capacity or when to turn on autoscale.

In the app, the event operations show the metadata of the publisher for the publish operations and the consumer for the delivery and filtering operations. For example, when an [!INCLUDE [fabric-activator](../real-time-intelligence/includes/fabric-activator.md)] trigger is created to take an action on an event, the Event Operations for delivery and filtering as well as the Event Listener operation shows the metadata of the [!INCLUDE [fabric-activator](../real-time-intelligence/includes/fabric-activator.md)] artifact.

#### Representation of nonartifacts
In some cases, the publisher or the consumer can be nonartifacts. For example, for workspace events, the publisher is the workspace. In these cases, the publish operations shows:
-  **Item kind** in the format of `Fabric Events-"<event category>`, and for workspace item events, the **Item kind** is `Fabric Events-WorkspaceItemEvents`.
-  The values for the **Workspace**, **Item name**, and the **Consumer Identity** is "Fabric Events Publisher".


## Changes to Microsoft Fabric workload consumption rate 
Consumption rates are subject to change at any time. Microsoft uses reasonable efforts to provide notice via email or through in-product notification. Changes shall be effective on the date stated in Microsoft’s Release Notes or Microsoft Fabric Blog. If any change to a Microsoft Fabric Workload Consumption Rate materially increases the Capacity Units (CU) required to use a particular workload, you can use the cancellation options available for the chosen payment method. 

## Related content 

- [Install the Premium metrics app](/power-bi/enterprise/service-premium-install-app)
- [Use the Premium metrics app](/power-bi/enterprise/service-premium-metrics-app)
