---
title: What's new in Fabric Eventstream?
description: Learn what is new with Fabric Eventstream, such as the latest release notes, known issues, bug fixes, deprecated functionality, and upcoming changes.
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 9/15/2025
author: alexlzx
ms.author: zhenxilin
---

# What's new in Fabric Eventstream?

Fabric Eventstream is continuously improved with new features and updates. This article highlights the most recent enhancements introduced in each release.

## September 2025

Here are the latest features announced over the past year:

- **New connectors**
    - [MQTT](/event-streams/add-source-mqtt)
    - [Real-time Weather](/fabric/event-streams/add-source-real-time-weather)
    - [Azure Data Explorer](/fabric/event-streams/add-source-azure-data-explorer-database)
    - [Azure Event Grid](/fabric/event-streams/add-source-azure-event-grid)
    - [Solace PubSub+](/fabric/event-streams/add-source-solace-pub-sub)
- **New operators**
    - [SQL Operator](/fabric/event-streams/process-events-using-sql-code-editor)
- **Security features**
    - [Tenant & Workspace Private Links support](/fabric/event-streams/set-up-tenant-workspace-private-links)
    - [Entra ID authentication for Custom Endpoint](/fabric/event-streams/custom-endpoint-entra-id-auth)
    - [Seamlessly connect Azure Logic Apps using Managed Identity](/fabric/event-streams/connect-using-managed-identity)
- **New capabilities**
    - [Enhance data transformation with Multi-schema inference](/fabric/event-streams/process-events-with-multiple-schemas)
    - Create type-safe pipelines using Event schema registry in Eventstream
    - Decode data with Confluent Schema Registry
    - Eventhouse supports direct ingestion from Eventstream derived streams
- **Public APIs**
    - Get Event Item Definition
    - [Get Topology APIs](/fabric/rest/api/fabric/eventstream/topology/get-eventstream-topology)
    - [Pause Eventstream](/fabric/rest/api/fabric/eventstream/topology/pause-eventstream)
    - [Resume Eventstream](/fabric/rest/api/fabric/eventstream/topology/resume-eventstream)

## November 2024

- Enhanced features are now generally available! This offers new features that improve your experience in building stream flows within Fabric Real-Time Intelligence. The enhancements include edit and live view modes, default and derived Streams, smart routing, transforming how data engineers handle real-time data streams with greater flexibility and efficiency.
- The following connectors are generally available now.
    - Confluent Cloud Kafka
    - Amazon Kinesis Data Streams
    - Google Cloud Pub/Sub
    - Amazon Managed Streaming for Kafka
    - Azure SQL Database Change Data Capture (CDC)
    - Azure SQL Managed Instance (CDC)
    - SQL Server on virtual machine (VM) Database (DB) CDC
    - PostgreSQL DB CDC
    - Azure Cosmos DB CDC
    - MySQL DB CDC
- The following source connector is in preview:
    - Azure Service Bus
- The following destination connector is in preview:
    - Fabric Activator
- OneLake and Job events are supported as part of Fabric events (preview) now. 
- Data preview for database CDC sources is now available. 
- Fabric event streams support runtime logs and data insights for the connector sources in Live View mode. With Runtime Logs, you can examine detailed logs generated by the connector engines for the specific connector, which help with identifying failure causes or warnings. You can access this feature in the bottom pane of an eventstream by selecting the relevant connector source node on the canvas in Live View mode.
- **CI/CD support**: Fabric offers complete CI/CD experience with various tools, including Git integration and Deployment pipelines. By integrating eventstreams with these tools, developers can efficiently build and maintain eventstreams from end-to-end in a web-based environment, while ensuring source control and smooth versioning across projects.
- **Eventstream REST APIs**: These APIs allow you to automate and manage eventstreams programmatically, simplifying CI/CD workflows and making it easier to integrate eventstreams with external applications

## Next steps
For an overview of Fabric event streams, see [Microsoft Fabric event streams - overview](overview.md).
