---
title: "Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database (Preview)"
description: Learn about the mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database in Microsoft Fabric.
author: WilliamDAssafMSFT
ms.author: wiassaf
ms.reviewer: roblescarlos
ms.service: fabric
ms.date: 03/20/2024
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.search.form: Fabric Mirroring
---

# Mirroring Azure SQL Database (Preview)

[Mirroring in Fabric](overview.md) provides an easy experience to avoid complex ETL (Extract Transform Load) and integrate existing your Azure SQL Database estate with the rest of your data in Microsoft Fabric. You can continuously replicate your existing Azure SQL databases directly into Fabric's OneLake. Inside Fabric, you can unlock powerful business intelligence, artificial intelligence, Data Engineering, Data Science, and data sharing scenarios.

For a tutorial on configuring your Azure SQL Database for Mirroring in Fabric, see [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database (Preview)](azure-sql-database-tutorial.md).

## Why use Mirroring in Fabric?

With Mirroring in Fabric, you don't need to piece together different services from multiple vendors. Instead, you can enjoy a highly integrated, end-to-end, and easy-to-use product that is designed to simplify your analytics needs, and built for openness and collaboration between Microsoft, Azure SQL Database, and the 1000s of technology solutions that can read the open-source Delta Lake table format.

## What analytics experiences are built in?

Mirrored databases are an item in the **Fabric Synapse Data Warehousing** experience distinct from the **Warehouse** and **SQL analytics endpoint** items.

:::image type="content" source="media/azure-sql-database/fabric-mirroring-sql-database.svg" alt-text="Diagram of Fabric Database Mirroring for Azure SQL Database.":::

Mirroring creates three items in your Fabric workspace:

- The mirrored database item. Mirroring manages the replication of data into [OneLake](../../onelake/onelake-overview.md) and conversion to Parquet, in an analytics-ready format. This enables downstream scenarios like data engineering, data science, and more.
- A [SQL analytics endpoint](../../data-warehouse/get-started-lakehouse-sql-analytics-endpoint.md)
- A [default semantic model](../../data-warehouse/semantic-models.md)

Each mirrored Azure SQL database has an autogenerated **SQL analytics endpoint** that provides a rich analytical experience on top of the Delta Tables created by the mirroring process. Users have access to familiar T-SQL commands that can define and query data objects but not manipulate the data from the SQL analytics endpoint, as it's a read-only copy. You can perform the following actions in the SQL analytics endpoint:

- Explore the tables that reference data in your Delta Lake tables from Azure SQL Database.
- Create no code queries and views and explore data visually without writing a line of code.
- Develop SQL views, inline TVFs (Table-valued Functions), and stored procedures to encapsulate your semantics and business logic in T-SQL.
- Manage permissions on the objects.
- Query data in other Warehouses and Lakehouses in the same workspace.

In addition to the [Microsoft Fabric SQL Query Editor](/fabric/data-warehouse/sql-query-editor), there's a broad ecosystem of tooling that can query the SQL analytics endpoint, including [SQL Server Management Studio](/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms), [Azure Data Studio](/sql/azure-data-studio/what-is-azure-data-studio), and even GitHub Copilot. 

## Network requirements

Currently, Mirroring doesn't support Azure SQL Database logical servers behind an Azure Virtual Network or private networking. If you have your Azure Database instance behind a private network, you can't enable Azure SQL Database mirroring.

- Currently, you must update your Azure SQL logical server firewall rules to [Allow public network access](/azure/azure-sql/database/connectivity-settings#change-public-network-access). 
- You must enable the [Allow Azure services](/azure/azure-sql/database/network-access-controls-overview#allow-azure-services) option to connect to your Azure SQL Database logical server.

## Tier and purchasing model support

The source Azure SQL Database can be either a single database or a database in an elastic pool.

- All service tiers in the [vCore purchasing model](/azure/azure-sql/database/service-tiers-sql-database-vcore) are supported.
- For the [DTU (Database Transaction Unit) purchasing model](/azure/azure-sql/database/service-tiers-dtu), databases created in the **Free**, **Basic**, or **Standard service tiers** with fewer than **100 DTUs** are **not supported.**

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database (Preview)](azure-sql-database-tutorial.md)

## Related content

- [How to: Secure data Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database (Preview)](azure-sql-database-how-to-data-security.md)
- [Limitations in Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database (Preview)](azure-sql-database-limitations.md)
- [Monitor Fabric mirrored database replication](monitor.md)
