---
title: Ingest Data into Your Warehouse Using Transact-SQL
description: Follow steps to ingest data into a Warehouse table using Transact-SQL
author: WilliamDAssafMSFT
ms.author: wiassaf
ms.reviewer: procha, jovanpop
ms.date: 12/05/2025
ms.topic: how-to
ms.search.form: Ingesting data
---

# Ingest data into your Warehouse using Transact-SQL

**Applies to:** [!INCLUDE [fabric-dw](includes/applies-to-version/fabric-dw.md)]

The Transact-SQL language offers options you can use to load data at scale from existing tables in your lakehouse and warehouse into new tables in your warehouse. These options are convenient if you need to create new versions of a table with aggregated data, versions of tables with a subset of the rows, or to create a table as a result of a complex query. Let's explore some examples.

<a id="creating-a-new-table-with-the-result-of-a-query-by-using-create-table-as-select-ctas"></a>

## Create a new table with the result of a query

Warehouse in Microsoft Fabric enables you to easily create a new table based on a result of T-SQL query, using the following T-SQL statements:

- `CREATE TABLE AS SELECT` (CTAS) statement that allows you to create a new table in your warehouse from the output of a `SELECT` statement.
- `SELECT INTO` query clause that enables you to select results from any table source, and redirect the results into a new table. This is a standard feature in T-SQL language.

These two statements are similar, so the following examples are focused on the CTAS statement.

The CTAS statement runs the ingestion operation into the new table in parallel, making it highly efficient for data transformation and creation of new tables in your workspace.

You can use the following options for the `SELECT` part of CTAS statement:
- Reading a warehouse table, such as a staging table.
- Reading a Lakehouse Delta Lake folder using an autogenerated table in SQL analytics endpoint for Lakehouse.
- Reading CSV, Parquet, or JSONL files directly from Azure Data Lake or Azure Blob storage using the `OPENROWSET` function.

> [!NOTE]
> The examples in this article use the Bing COVID-19 sample dataset. To load the sample dataset, follow the steps in [Ingest data into your Warehouse using the COPY statement](ingest-data-copy.md) to create the sample data into your warehouse.

<a id="creating-table-from-warehouse-table"></a>

### Create table from Warehouse table

The first example illustrates how to create a new table that is a copy of the existing `dbo.bing_covid19_data_2023` table, but filtered to data from the year 2023 only:

```sql
CREATE TABLE dbo.bing_covid19_data_2023
AS
SELECT * 
FROM dbo.bing_covid19_data 
WHERE DATEPART(YEAR, updated) = '2023';
```

You can also create a new table with new `year`, `month`, `dayofmonth` columns, with values obtained from `updated` column in the source table. This can be useful if you're trying to visualize infection data by year, or to see months when the most COVID-19 cases are observed:

```sql
CREATE TABLE dbo.bing_covid19_data_with_year_month_day
AS
SELECT DATEPART(YEAR, updated) AS [year],
       DATEPART(MONTH, updated) AS [month],
       DATEPART(DAY, updated) AS [dayofmonth],
       * 
FROM dbo.bing_covid19_data;
```

As another example, you can create a new table that summarizes the number of cases observed in each month, regardless of the year, to evaluate how seasonality affects spread in a given country/region. It uses the table created in the previous example with the new `month` column as a source: 

```sql
CREATE TABLE dbo.infections_by_month
AS
SELECT country_region, [month],
       SUM(CAST(confirmed as bigint)) AS confirmed_sum
FROM dbo.bing_covid19_data_with_year_month_day
GROUP BY country_region, [month];
```

Based on this new table, we can see that the United States observed more confirmed cases across all years in the month of `January`, followed by `December` and `October`. `April` is the month with the lowest number of cases overall:

```sql
SELECT * FROM dbo.infections_by_month
WHERE country_region = 'United States'
ORDER BY confirmed_sum DESC;
```

<a id="creating-table-from-delta-lake-folder"></a>

### Create table from Delta Lake folder

The Delta Lake folders that are persisted in OneLake are automatically represented as tables if they're stored in **/Tables** folder in a lakehouse. The following code creates a new table `bing_covid19_data_2023` from Delta Lake folder **/Tables/bing_covid19_delta_lake** in the **MyLakehouse** lakehouse:

```sql
CREATE TABLE dbo.bing_covid19_data_2023
AS
SELECT * 
FROM MyLakehouse.dbo.bing_covid19_delta_lake 
WHERE DATEPART(YEAR, updated) = '2023';
```

You can reference Delta Lake folder using the three-part-name notation that references the lakehouse where the files are stored. All examples shown in the previous section are applicable to Delta Lake folders. 

<a id="creating-table-from-csvparquet-file"></a>

### Create table from CSV/Parquet/JSONL file

Instead of reading data from the Warehouse `bing_covid19_data` table, you can also create a new table directly from an external file using the `OPENROWSET` function:

```sql
CREATE TABLE dbo.bing_covid19_data_2022
AS
SELECT *
FROM OPENROWSET(BULK 'https://pandemicdatalake.blob.core.windows.net/public/curated/covid-19/bing_covid-19_data/latest/bing_covid-19_data.parquet') AS data
WHERE DATEPART(YEAR, updated) = '2022';
```

You can also create a new table by transforming data from an external CSV file:

```sql
CREATE TABLE dbo.bing_covid19_data_with_year_month_day
AS
SELECT DATEPART(YEAR, updated) AS [year], 
       DATEPART(MONTH, updated) AS [month],
       DATEPART(DAY, updated) AS [dayofmonth],
       *
FROM OPENROWSET(BULK 'https://pandemicdatalake.blob.core.windows.net/public/curated/covid-19/bing_covid-19_data/latest/bing_covid-19_data.csv') AS data;
```

As another example, you can create a new table that summarizes the number of cases observed in each month, regardless of the year, to evaluate how seasonality affects spread in a given country/region. It uses the table created in the previous example with the new `month` column as a source: 

```sql
CREATE TABLE dbo.infections_by_month_2022
AS
SELECT country_region,
       DATEPART(MONTH, updated) AS [month],
       SUM(CAST(confirmed as bigint)) AS [confirmed_sum]
FROM OPENROWSET(BULK 'https://pandemicdatalake.blob.core.windows.net/public/curated/covid-19/bing_covid-19_data/latest/bing_covid-19_data.jsonl') AS data
WHERE DATEPART(YEAR, updated) = '2022'
GROUP BY country_region, DATEPART(MONTH, updated);
```

Based on this new table, we can see that the United States observed more confirmed cases across all years in the month of `January`, followed by `December` and `October`. `April` is the month with the lowest number of cases overall:

```sql
SELECT * FROM dbo.infections_by_month_2022
WHERE country_region = 'United States'
ORDER BY confirmed_sum DESC;
```

:::image type="content" source="media/ingest-data-tsql/infections-by-month.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the query results showing the number of infections by month in the United States, ordered by month, in descending order. The month number 1 is shown on top." lightbox="media/ingest-data-tsql/infections-by-month.png":::

- For more information and examples on querying external data, see [Query external data lake files by using Fabric Data Warehouse or SQL analytics endpoint](query-external-data-lake-files.md).
- For more examples and syntax reference, see [CREATE TABLE AS SELECT (Transact-SQL)](/sql/t-sql/statements/create-table-as-select-azure-sql-data-warehouse?view=fabric&preserve-view=true).

<a id="ingesting-data-into-existing-tables-with-t-sql-queries"></a>

## Ingest data into existing tables with T-SQL queries

The previous examples create new tables based on the result of a query. To replicate the examples but on existing tables, the `INSERT ... SELECT` pattern can be used. 

### Ingest data from Warehouse table

The following code ingests new data from a warehouse table into an existing table:

```sql
INSERT INTO dbo.bing_covid19_data_2023
SELECT *
FROM dbo.bing_covid19_data
WHERE DATEPART(YEAR, updated) = '2023';
```

The query criteria for the `SELECT` statement can be any valid query, as long as the resulting query column types align with the columns on the destination table. If column names are specified and include only a subset of the columns from the destination table, all other columns are loaded as `NULL`. For more information, see [Using INSERT INTO...SELECT to Bulk Import data with minimal logging and parallelism](/sql/t-sql/statements/insert-transact-sql?view=fabric&preserve-view=true#using-insert-intoselect-to-bulk-import-data-with-minimal-logging-and-parallelism).

### Ingest data from Delta Lake folder

The Delta Lake folders that are persisted in OneLake are automatically represented as tables if they're stored in `/Tables` folder in a lakehouse.

The following code ingests new data from Delta Lake folder `/Tables/bing_covid19_delta_lake` section in the `MyLakehouse*` lakehouse

```sql
INSERT INTO dbo.bing_covid19_data_2023
SELECT *
FROM MyLakehouse.dbo.bing_covid19_delta_lake 
WHERE DATEPART(YEAR, updated) = '2023';
```

### Ingest data from CSV/Parquet/JSONL file

You can use the `OPENROWSET` function as a source in order to ingest Parquet, CSV, or JSON files from storage:

```sql
INSERT INTO dbo.bing_covid19_data_2023
SELECT *
FROM OPENROWSET(BULK 'https://pandemicdatalake.blob.core.windows.net/public/curated/covid-19/bing_covid-19_data/latest/bing_covid-19_data.parquet') AS data
WHERE DATEPART(YEAR, updated) = '2023';
```

You can read multiple files by using wildcards like `*.parquet`, or by targeting partitioned directories such as `/year=*/month=*`. To optimize performance, apply filters in the WHERE clause to eliminate unnecessary rows and partitions during query execution.

These example is similar to those used in [ingestion with COPY INTO](ingest-data-copy.md). The COPY INTO command is easier to use, especially for straightforward source-to-destination data loads. However, if you need to transform source data (such as converting values or joining with other tables), using `INSERT ... SELECT` gives you the flexibility to perform transformations during ingestion.

### Ingest data from OneLake

You can use the `OPENROWSET` function as a source in order to ingest data from Fabric OneLake storage. Replace `{workspaceId}` and `{lakehouseId}` with the corresponding workspace and lakehouse GUIDs in the following sample:

```sql
INSERT INTO dbo.bing_covid19_data_2023
SELECT *
FROM OPENROWSET(BULK 'https://onelake.dfs.fabric.microsoft.com/{workspaceId}/{lakehouseId}/Files/year=*/month=*/*.parquet') AS data
WHERE data.filepath(1) = '2023'
```

This example builds on the previous one that reads data from Azure Data Lake Storage. Use this approach when you need to transform source data, for example, converting values, joining with other tables, or reading specific partitions. In such cases, using `INSERT ... SELECT` provides the flexibility to apply transformations during data ingestion.

<a id="ingesting-data-from-tables-on-different-warehouses-and-lakehouses"></a>

## Ingest data from tables on different warehouses and lakehouses

For both `CREATE TABLE AS SELECT` and `INSERT ... SELECT`, the `SELECT` statement can also reference tables on warehouses that are different from the warehouse where your destination table is stored, by using cross-warehouse queries. This can be achieved by using the three-part naming convention `[warehouse_or_lakehouse_name.][schema_name.]table_name`. For example, suppose you have the following workspace assets:

- A lakehouse named `cases_lakehouse` with the latest case data. 
- A warehouse named `reference_warehouse` with tables used for reference data.
- A warehouse named `research_warehouse` where the destination table is created. 

A new table can be created that uses three-part naming to combine data from tables on these workspace assets:

```sql
CREATE TABLE research_warehouse.dbo.cases_by_continent
AS
SELECT *
FROM cases_lakehouse.dbo.bing_covid19_data AS cases
INNER JOIN reference_warehouse.dbo.bing_covid19_data AS reference
ON cases.iso3 = reference.countrycode;
```

To learn more about cross-warehouse queries, see [Write a cross-database SQL Query](query-warehouse.md#write-a-cross-database-query).

## Audit and monitor T-SQL ingestion

Both `CTAS` and `INSERT ... SELECT` operations executed via T-SQL appear in the [warehouse query history/activity](query-activity.md), and can be monitored alongside other warehouse operations.

## Data ingestion options

Other ways to ingest data into your warehouse include:

- [Ingest data using the COPY statement](ingest-data-copy.md)
- [Ingest data using pipelines](ingest-data-pipelines.md)
- [Ingest data using a dataflow](../data-factory/create-first-dataflow-gen2.md)

## Related content

- [Ingest data into the Warehouse](ingest-data.md)
- [Write a cross-database SQL Query](query-warehouse.md#write-a-cross-database-query)
