---
title: Spark Synapse to Fabric Spark MigrationAssistant
description: This document describes the Spark Synapse to Fabric Migration Assistant, a Microsoft Fabric-owned experience that helps customers migrate Spark workloads from Azure Synapse Analytics to Microsoft Fabric.
ms.reviewer: jejiang
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 03/01/2026
---

#  Spark Synapse to Fabric Migration Assistant - Private Preview

The Spark Synapse to Fabric Migration Assistant automates the migration of Spark-related artifacts from a Synapse workspace to a Microsoft Fabric workspace. In this private preview, the tool supports migration of the following resources:

- **Spark Pools**: All supported Spark pools are migrated to Fabric Pools and corresponding Environments. 
- **Notebooks**: All notebooks and their associated environments are migrated. The notebook code remains unchanged, though manual updates may be required to ensure compatibility with Fabric execution. 
- **Spark Job Definitions (SJDs)**: All SJDs migrated along with their respective environments. 
- **Databases**: The default database in Synapse is mapped to the dbo schema in Fabric. Each additional database results in the creation of a new schema within the same Lakehouse. All managed Delta tables are migrated by creating shortcuts in OneLakeCatalog schemas that point to the original table locations. Migration of non-Delta tables is not yet supported in this private preview.  

**Important**: No data is moved during the migration process. All data remains in its original location. A detailed migration report is generated upon completion

## Access the Migration Assistant

To enable the feature, append **?sparkUpgradeToFabric=1** if it is the first parameter in the URL, or **&sparkUpgradeToFabric=1** if other parameters are already present. Add it at the end of your Fabric URL.

Examples:

```
https://msit.fabric.microsoft.com/home?sparkUpgradeToFabric=1  
```
```
https://msit.powerbi.com/groups/{workspaceid}/list?trident=1&experience=fabric-developer&referrer=embed.appsource&sparkUpgradeToFabric=1
```

## Getting Started with the Migration Assistant

1. **Start the Migration Process** - From the **workspace toolbar**, click the **Migrate** button.

2. **Select Data Engineering Items** - In the wizard, choose the **Data Engineering Items** tile.

   :::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/migrate-to-fabric.png" alt-text="Screenshot of migrate to fabric." lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/migrate-to-fabric.png":::

3. **Enter Migration Details**
   - Provide a **name** for the migration.
   - Select the **Subscription** and **Synapse Workspace** that you created or accessed in Prerequisites Step 1.

   :::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/select-a-source.png" alt-text="Screenshot of select a source" lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/select-a-source.png":::

4. **Select the Fabric Workspace Name** - Specify the Fabric workspace where the items should be migrated.

   :::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/select-a-destination.png" alt-text="Screenshot of select a destination." lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/select-a-destination.png:::"

5. **Select or Create a Data Gateway Connection (Optional)**
   - Any existing gateway connections to which you have access will be listed here.

   :::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/select-or-create-a-data-gateway-connection.png" alt-text="Screenshot of select or create a data gateway connection." lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/select-or-create-a-data-gateway-connection.png:::"

   >[!NOTE]
   >
   > If you do not select a **gateway connection, databases will not be migrated.**

   - To create a new connection, select **"Add new"** which brings up this screen:

   - The server and path will be autogenerated based off the default AzureDataLake Gen2 storage and container of the Synapse workspace. This is required because the DB Upgrade will create shortcuts to this container which will have the location of all managed tables.
   
      :::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/new-connection.png" alt-text="Screenshot of new connection." lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/new-connection.png:::"
   
6. **Review Migration Details -** Click **Next** to proceed to the review screen.

   :::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/finish-and-migrate.png" alt-text="Screenshot of finish and migrate." lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/finish-and-migrate.png:::"

   Closing the dialog at this point will allow you to cancel the migration:

   :::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/cancel-this-migration.png" alt-text="Screenshot of cancel this migration." lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/cancel-this-migration.png:::"

7. **Start the Migration Process**

   - Click **Migrate** to initiate the actual migration.
   - The spinner will indicate that the migration has started.

      :::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/migrate.png" alt-text="Screenshot of migration button." lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/migrate.png:::"

**Notifications:**
   - A notification at the **top-right** corner will indicate the progress.
   - A link to the **Migration Report** will be available.
   - After a few seconds, you will be **automatically redirected** to the report.

      :::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/migrate-spark-items.png" alt-text="Screenshot of migrate spark items." lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/migrate-spark-items.png:::"

      >[!NOTE]
      >
      > The migration report can also be accessed from the Monitoring Hub. You can search for the migration job by its migration name or filter by the Spark Job Definition item type.

8. Review the **Migration Report** - Click the **Migration Report** link from the previous step to view the migration 
report.

:::image type="content" source="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/migration-summary.png" alt-text="Screenshot of migration summary." lightbox="media/synapse-to-fabric-spark-migration-assistant/migration-summary.png:::"

>[!NOTE]
>
> Click **Details** to view additional information about errors or warnings encountered during migration.

## Known issue

Synapse workspaces that contain a hyphen in their name are currently unable to migrate. The 
engineering team has developed a fix, and it is in the process of being deployed. In the meantime, try to avoid migrating any Synapse workspaces that contain hyphens in their names.

## Private Preview: By Design Limitations

- Workspaces under a VNET in Synapse cannot be migrated yet.
- Migration to an older Fabric Workspace with Spark Runtime = 3.3 is not supported as 3.3 is deprecated and newer workspaces cannot be created with that Runtime.
- Spark configurations and libraries are not included in the migration.
- If a Notebook or SJD in Synapse was associated with a pool that has custom executor settings, those settings will not be migrated.
- Migration of non-Delta tables is not yet supported. 
- Migration to specific folders is not yet supported.
- The current user experience does not yet support accessibility features or content reflow




