---
title: Discover and explore Fabric items in the OneLake catalog
description: Learn how to discover, explore, manage, and use your organization's Fabric items in the OneLake catalog.
author: paulinbar
ms.author: painbar
ms.reviewer: yaronc
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 01/12/2025
ms.custom:
#customer intent: As data owner, I want to learn about OneLake catalog's Govern tab, and use it's capabilities to get insights about and govern the data in Fabric that I own.
---

# Govern your data in Fabric

The OneLake catalog's govern tab gives you oversight across your whole data estate in Fabric to help you better manage and control it. The Govern tab:

* Provides insights to help you understand the governance status of your data.

* Recommends and provides guidance for actions you can take to improve your data's governance status.

* Provides links to tools and learning resources you can use to help you to accomplish these tasks.


What data am I seeing?

The insights as based on the data you own. "Data you own" refers to the data that you can see under the My data tab in the Explore tab.

Domains
Workspaces
Items
Items you own by type
Items you own by last refresh date
Items with description
Items by your last access date

Your data estate
Data hierarchy
Items by type
Items by last refresh
Items last refreshed more than 4 months ago
Items by your last access date 
Items you last visited more than 4 months ago

Sensitivity label coverage
Sensitivity label coverage
Items per sensitivity label
Unlabeled items by type
Unlabeled items that were recently refreshed
Your unlabeled items you recently visited

Discover, trust, and reuse
Master Data
Certified
Promoted
Items with description
Tagged items by type
Unendorsed items by type
Items without description by type
Untagged items by type
Endorsed items without description




## Refresh

The data shown in the insights visuals reflects the last successful refresh of the the OneLake catalog report located in your My workspace. The data automatically refreshes whenever you visit the Govern tab. You can also manually refresh the data on demand using the **Refresh** button on the Govern tab.

If the data is not refreshing as expected, check the notifications pane and the [Monitor page](/fabric/admin/monitoring-hub). If case of repeated failure, or if you can't figure out what's causing the failure, try regenerating the report by closing the Govern tab, deleting the OneLake catalog governance report and its associated semantic model from your My workspace, and then opening the Governance tab once again. 

Consider referring to more documentation  
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
# Get insights about the governance status your Fabric data

The **Your governance status at a glance** section 



## Improve governance of your Fabric data

## Explore Microsoft Fabric solutions for data governance, compliance, and security

Read, watch, learn

## Insights

Top Insights, All insights

Ownership summary

Items you own by type

Items you own by last refresh date

Items with description

Items by your last access date



## Recommended actions

## Solutions

## Read watch and learn

## Autogenerated semantic model and report

## Considerations and limitations

* The Govern tab doesn't currently support cross-tenant scenarios.

* Only insights are currently filtered according to OneLake catalog's domain filter - recommended actions are not. This means that if you set the filter to a given domain, you'll see only insights that are related to that domain, but you might see recommended actions that are related to items associated with other domains as well.

## Related content

* [Endorsement](./endorsement-overview.md)
* [Fabric domains](./domains.md)
* [Lineage in Fabric](./lineage.md)
* [Monitor hub](../admin/monitoring-hub.md)