---
title: "Dremio catalog mirroring in Microsoft Fabric"
description: Learn about Dremio catalog mirroring in Microsoft Fabric.
author: matt1883
ms.author: mahi
ms.reviewer: mahi
ms.date: 04/27/2026
ms.topic: overview
ms.search.form: Dremio catalog mirroring overview
---

# Mirrored Dremio catalog

A mirrored Dremio catalog in Fabric enables customers to read data managed by Dremio from Fabric workloads.

For a tutorial on configuring your Dremio environment for Dremio catalog mirroring into Fabric, see [Tutorial: Configure mirrored Dremio catalog](catalog-mirroring-dremio-tutorial.md).

[!INCLUDE [feature-preview-note](../../includes/feature-preview-note.md)]

[Mirroring in Fabric](../../mirroring/overview.md) allows users to enjoy a highly integrated, end-to-end, and easy-to-use product that is designed to simplify your analytics needs. You can enjoy an easy-to-use product designed to simplify your analytics needs and built for openness and collaboration between Microsoft Fabric and Dremio.

When you use Fabric to read data that is registered in a Dremio catalog, there is no data movement or data replication. Only the Dremio catalog structure is mirrored to Fabric, and the underlying catalog data is accessed through shortcuts. Changes to the underlying data may not appear in Fabric immediately. Propagation can take anywhere from a few seconds to several minutes, as described in the [SQL Analytics Endpoint Performance documentation](../../data-warehouse/sql-analytics-endpoint-performance.md).

## What analytics experiences are built in

Mirrored catalogs are items in Fabric distinct from other items such as Lakehouses and SQL analytics endpoints.

When you mirror a Dremio catalog, Fabric creates these items:

- Mirrored Dremio catalog item
- A [SQL analytics endpoint](../../data-warehouse/get-started-lakehouse-sql-analytics-endpoint.md) for this item

You can access your mirrored Dremio catalog data multiple ways:

- Each mirrored Dremio catalog item has an autogenerated SQL analytics endpoint that provides a rich analytical experience created by the mirroring process. Use T-SQL commands to define and query data objects from the read-only SQL analytics endpoint.
- Use Power BI with Direct Lake mode to create reports against the mirrored Dremio catalog item.
- Other Fabric workloads that can read tables can also be used to query tables in the mirrored Dremio catalog item.

## Metadata sync

When you create a new mirrored Dremio catalog in Fabric, by default, the **Automatically sync future tables** option is enabled. The following metadata changes are reflected from your Dremio environment to Fabric if automatic sync is enabled:

- Addition of namespaces to the catalog.
- Deletion of namespaces from the catalog.
- Addition of tables to a namespace.
- Deletion of tables from a namespace.

Schema/table selection:

- The user can select which namespaces should be included as schemas, and they can exclude certain tables.
- Unselecting a namespace unselects all the tables within the namespace.
- If the user goes back and selects the namespace, all tables within the namespace are selected again.

## Related content

- [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Dremio](catalog-mirroring-dremio-tutorial.md)
- [Limitations in Microsoft Fabric catalog mirroring for Dremio](catalog-mirroring-dremio-limitations.md)
