---
title: Understand your Fabric capacity Azure bill
description: Learn how to navigate your Azure bill for A Fabric capacity.
author: KesemSharabi
ms.author: kesharab
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.custom: build-2023
ms.date: 09/19/2023
---

# Understand your Azure bill on a Fabric capacity

[!INCLUDE [preview-note](../includes/preview-note.md)]

When you use a Fabric capacity, your usage charges appear in the Azure portal under your subscription in the [Microsoft Cost Management](/azure/cost-management-billing/cost-management-billing-overview) experience.

## Invoice meters

In Microsoft Cost Management, your cost analysis and invoice show multiple meters related to your Fabric capacity resource. The following is a complete list of all of the meters.

* **Power BI  Usage CU** – Represents the Power BI usage on your capacity.
* **Data Movement Capacity Usage CU** - Represents the Pipelines usage on your capacity.
* **Data Warehouse Capacity Usage CU** - Represents the Data Warehouse usage on your capacity.
* **Dataflows Standard Compute Capacity Usage CU** - Represents the Dataflows usage on your capacity.
* **eventstreams Processor Capacity Usage CU** - Represents the eventstream usage on your capacity.
* **KQL Database Capacity Usage CU** - Represents the KQL uptime usage on your capacity.
* **OneLake Read Operations Capacity Usage CU** - Represents the transaction usage for OneLake operations on your capacity.
* **Spark Memory Optimized Capacity Usage CU** - Represents the Spark usage on your capacity.
* **Available Capacity Usage CU** – Represents the available capacity that wasn't used by Fabric.

The total usage from all meters add up to the cost of the provisioned Fabric capacity.

## Comparing your Azure bill with your usage

Use the [Microsoft Fabric Capacity Metrics](metrics-app-overview-page.md) to correlate your Azure bill with usage analytics generated from your organization’s usage of Fabric.

The default view in the app shows trends in consumption by workload over the past 14 days. The view includes an analysis of billable and preview workloads that aren't used by your capacity and aren't billed.

There are two ways to configure the app to show the *Fabric Billable CU(s)* shown in your bill.

* Use the filters panel to set preview status to false to display only billable capacity usage

* Use <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> to select all the billable workloads.

Usage in the items table is aggregated by workspace, workload type, and item name. The amount of billable usage generated by each item is aggregated by CUs.

To compare the information in the Microsoft Fabric Capacity Metrics app to what you're seeing in Azure, filter your cost management view in the Azure portal so that it displays the same time period as the app. Review the cost under the meter for the item you are reviewing (for example, for Warehouse, it is the _Data Warehouse Capacity Usage CU_ meter). The price per CU hour for your capacity depends on your capacity's region. You can view the Fabric prices per region in the [Microsoft Fabric pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/microsoft-fabric/) page.

## Next steps

[Microsoft Fabric Capacity Metrics](metrics-app-overview-page.md)
