---
title: Fabric GraphQL API schema view and Schema explorer
description: Learn about the Microsoft Fabric GraphQL API schema view and the Schema explorer pane, including how to modify objects.
ms.reviewer: sngun
ms.author: sngun
author: snehagunda
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.search.form: GrpahQL schema view
ms.date: 04/05/2024
---

# GraphQL API Schema view and Schema explorer

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft Fabric API for GraphQL is in preview.

The GraphQL schema defines the format of the data exposed in the API and it's based on the GraphQL Schema Definition Language or SDL. It's an abstraction layer that provides flexibility to consumers while hiding backend implementation details, and it's based on a collection of object types that contain fields.

## Schema view

You can access the Schema View by selecting "Schema" in the lower left. The view shows a text-based version of the GraphQL SDL with generated types, fields and operations.

The following image is an example of the schema view, including an extensive list of objects available in this schema.

> [!NOTE]
> The Schema view is read only. You can only modify objects in the Schema explorer.

:::image type="content" source="media/get-started-graphql-api/schema-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the GraphQL API schema view screen, which includes the Schema explorer in the left pane." lightbox="media/get-started-graphql-api/schema-view.png":::

## Schema explorer

The Schema explorer is located in the pane on the left, and is also available when you use the editor in the query view. The explorer allows users to quickly visualize the available types and fields as well as queries and mutations defined in the API.

All the GraphQL types that are available from the objects you chose during the process to connect to a data source appear in the Schema explorer list. The types appear under the name of the data source from which they were derived. In the following image, you can see the **SalesOrderDetail** type derived from the **SalesOrderDetail** table in the **AdventureWorks** SQL analytics endpoint.

:::image type="content" source="media/graphql-schema-view/schema-explorer-types.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Schema explorer pane, showing the expanded list of types available under an example data source named SalesOrderDetail.":::

In addition to types, the Fabric GraphQL API automatically generates queries and mutations for any new objects you choose to expose.

In our AdventureWorks example, expanding the list of queries shows the automatically generated queries for the data source.

:::image type="content" source="media/graphql-schema-view/schema-explorer-queries.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Schema explorer pane, showing an expanded list of automatically generated queries.":::

To see the mutations automatically generated by the API, expand the mutations node in the Schema explorer tree.

:::image type="content" source="media/graphql-schema-view/schema-explorer-mutations.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Schema explorer pane, showing an expanded list of automatically generated mutations.":::

## Modifying objects using the Schema explorer

You can use the Schema explorer to modify objects after the API creates them for you. In the following example, we select the ellipsis next to the **SalesOrderDetail** type derived from our **AdventureWorks** database:

:::image type="content" source="media/graphql-schema-view/schema-explorer-modify-object.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Schema explorer with the ellipsis selected, showing the available menu options.":::

These options are available:

- **Update schema** - Allows you to update the schema with new objects from the data source.
- **Rename** - Change the name of the object. PLEASE NOTE: This change **only** affects the GraphQL API schema, and has no effect on the original data source object from which it was derived.
- **Remove from schema** - Effectively deletes the object from the GraphQL schema so you can no longer reference it.
- **Manage relationships** - Takes you to the relationship management experience. For more information, see [Manage relationships in Fabric GraphQL API](manage-relationships.md).
- **Properties** - Shows additional information about the object.

## Related content

- [Fabric GraphQL API editor](graphql-api-editor.md)
