---
title: "Microsoft Fabric Mirrored Databases from Azure SQL Database"
description: Learn about the mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database in Microsoft Fabric.
ms.reviewer: imotiwala
ms.date: 07/03/2025
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.search.form: Fabric Mirroring
no-loc: [Copilot]
---

# Mirroring Azure SQL Database

[Mirroring in Fabric](../mirroring/overview.md) provides an easy experience to avoid complex ETL (Extract Transform Load) and integrate your existing Azure SQL Database estate with the rest of your data in Microsoft Fabric. You can continuously replicate your existing Azure SQL Databases directly into Fabric's OneLake. Inside Fabric, you can unlock powerful business intelligence, artificial intelligence, Data Engineering, Data Science, and data sharing scenarios.

For a tutorial on configuring your Azure SQL Database for Mirroring in Fabric, see [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database](../mirroring/azure-sql-database-tutorial.md).

To learn more and watch demos of Mirroring Azure SQL Database in Fabric, watch the following the [Data Exposed episode](/shows/data-exposed/key-mirroring-to-azure-sql-database-in-fabric-benefits-data-exposed).

> [!VIDEO https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?show=data-exposed&ep=key-mirroring-to-azure-sql-database-in-fabric-benefits-data-exposed]

## Why use Mirroring in Fabric?

With Mirroring in Fabric, you don't need to piece together different services from multiple vendors. Instead, you can enjoy a highly integrated, end-to-end, and easy-to-use product that is designed to simplify your analytics needs, and built for openness and collaboration between Microsoft, Azure SQL Database, and the 1000s of technology solutions that can read the open-source Delta Lake table format.

## What analytics experiences are built in?

Mirrored databases are an item in **Fabric Data Warehousing** distinct from the **Warehouse** and **SQL analytics endpoint**.

:::image type="content" source="media/azure-sql-database/fabric-mirroring-sql-database.svg" alt-text="Diagram of Fabric database mirroring for Azure SQL Database.":::

Creating a mirroring database creates these items in your Fabric workspace:

- The mirrored SQL database item. Mirroring manages the replication of data into [OneLake](../onelake/onelake-overview.md) and conversion to Parquet, in an analytics-ready format. This enables downstream scenarios like data engineering, data science, and more.
- A [SQL analytics endpoint](../data-warehouse/get-started-lakehouse-sql-analytics-endpoint.md)

Each mirrored Azure SQL Database has an autogenerated **SQL analytics endpoint** that provides a rich analytical experience on top of the Delta Tables created by the mirroring process. Users have access to familiar T-SQL commands that can define and query data objects but not manipulate the data from the SQL analytics endpoint, as it's a read-only copy. You can perform the following actions in the SQL analytics endpoint:

- Explore the tables that reference data in your Delta Lake tables from Azure SQL Database.
- Create no code queries and views and explore data visually without writing a line of code.
- Develop SQL views, inline TVFs (Table-valued Functions), and stored procedures to encapsulate your semantics and business logic in T-SQL.
- Manage permissions on the objects.
- Query data in other Warehouses and Lakehouses in the same workspace.

In addition to the [SQL query editor](../data-warehouse/sql-query-editor.md), there's a broad ecosystem of tooling that can query the SQL analytics endpoint, including [SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)](/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms), [the mssql extension with Visual Studio Code](/sql/tools/visual-studio-code/mssql-extensions?view=fabric&preserve-view=true), and even GitHub Copilot. 

## Mirroring Azure SQL Database behind firewall

If your Azure SQL Database is not publicly accessible and doesn't [allow Azure services](/azure/azure-sql/database/network-access-controls-overview#allow-azure-services) to connect to it, you can set up [virtual network data gateway](/data-integration/vnet/overview) or [on-premises data gateway](/data-integration/gateway/service-gateway-onprem) to mirror the data. The data gateway facilitates secure connections to your source databases through a private endpoint or from a trusted private network. For more information, see [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database](../mirroring/azure-sql-database-tutorial.md).

## Active transactions, workloads, and replicator engine behaviors

- Active transactions continue to hold the transaction log truncation until the transaction commits and the mirrored Azure SQL Database catches up, or the transaction aborts. Long-running transactions might result in the transaction log filling up more than usual. The source database transaction log should be monitored so that the transaction log does not fill. For more information, see [Transaction log grows due to long-running transactions and CDC](/troubleshoot/sql/database-engine/replication/monitor-long-running-transactions-and-log-growth).
- Each user workload varies. During initial snapshot, there might be more resource usage on the source database, for both CPU and IOPS (input/output operations per second, to read the pages). Table updates/delete operations can lead to increased log generation. Learn more on how to [monitor resources for your Azure SQL Database](/azure/azure-sql/database/monitor-tune-overview?view=azuresql-db&preserve-view=true#azure-sql-database-and-azure-sql-managed-instance-resource-monitoring).

## Tier and purchasing model support

The source Azure SQL Database can be either a single database or a database in an elastic pool.

- All service tiers in the [vCore purchasing model](/azure/azure-sql/database/service-tiers-sql-database-vcore) are supported.
- For the [DTU (Database Transaction Unit) purchasing model](/azure/azure-sql/database/service-tiers-dtu), databases created in the **Free**, **Basic**, or **Standard service tiers** with fewer than **100 DTUs** are **not supported.**

## Pricing

Fabric compute used to replicate your data into Fabric OneLake is free. Storage in OneLake is free of cost based the capacity size. For more information, see [Cost of mirroring](overview.md#cost-of-mirroring) and [OneLake pricing for mirroring](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/microsoft-fabric/). The compute usage for querying data via SQL, Power BI, or Spark is still charged based on the Fabric Capacity. 

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database](../mirroring/azure-sql-database-tutorial.md)

## Related content

- [How to: Secure data Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database](../mirroring/azure-sql-database-how-to-data-security.md)
- [Limitations in Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database](../mirroring/azure-sql-database-limitations.md)
- [Monitor Fabric mirrored database replication](../mirroring/monitor.md)
- [Troubleshoot Fabric mirrored databases from Azure SQL Database](../mirroring/azure-sql-database-troubleshoot.md)
