---
title: "Microsoft Fabric Mirrored Databases From Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server"
description: Learn about the mirrored databases from Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server in Microsoft Fabric.
author: whhender
ms.author: whhender
ms.reviewer: scoriani
ms.date: 07/15/2025
ms.topic: overview
ms.custom:
ms.search.form: Fabric Mirroring
no-loc: [Copilot]
---

# Mirroring Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server

[Mirroring in Fabric](../mirroring/overview.md) provides an easy experience to avoid complex ETL (Extract Transform Load) and integrate your existing Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server estate with the rest of your data in Microsoft Fabric. You can continuously replicate your existing Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server directly into Fabric's OneLake, whether your servers are publicly accessible, network-isolated through virtual networks or private endpoints, or configured for high availability. Inside Fabric, you can unlock powerful business intelligence, artificial intelligence, Data Engineering, Data Science, and data sharing scenarios.

For a tutorial on configuring your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server Mirroring in Fabric (now generally available), see [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server](../mirroring/azure-database-postgresql-tutorial.md).

## Why use Mirroring in Fabric?

With Mirroring in Fabric, you don't need to piece together different services from multiple vendors. Instead, you can enjoy a highly integrated, end-to-end, and easy-to-use product that is designed to simplify your analytics needs, and built for openness and collaboration between Microsoft, Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server, and the 1000s of technology solutions that can read the open-source Delta Lake table format.

## What analytics experiences are built in?

Mirrored databases are an item in **Fabric Data Warehousing** distinct from the **Warehouse** and **SQL analytics endpoint**.

:::image type="content" source="media/azure-database-postgresql/fabric-mirroring-database-postgresql.svg" alt-text="Diagram of Fabric database mirroring for Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.":::

Mirroring creates these items in your Fabric workspace:

- The mirrored database item. Mirroring manages the replication of data into [OneLake](../onelake/onelake-overview.md) and conversion to Parquet, in an analytics-ready format. This enables downstream scenarios like data engineering, data science, and more.
- A [SQL analytics endpoint](../data-warehouse/get-started-lakehouse-sql-analytics-endpoint.md)

Each mirrored database in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server has an autogenerated **SQL analytics endpoint** that provides a rich analytical experience on top of the Delta Tables created by the mirroring process. Users have access to familiar T-SQL commands that can define and query data objects but not manipulate the data from the SQL analytics endpoint, as it's a read-only copy. You can perform the following actions in the SQL analytics endpoint:

- Explore the tables that reference data in your Delta Lake tables from Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.
- Create no code queries and views and explore data visually without writing a line of code.
- Develop SQL views, inline TVFs (Table-valued Functions), and stored procedures to encapsulate your semantics and business logic in T-SQL.
- Manage permissions on the objects.
- Query data in other Warehouses and Lakehouses in the same workspace.

In addition to the [SQL query editor](../data-warehouse/sql-query-editor.md), there's a broad ecosystem of tooling that can query the SQL analytics endpoint, including [SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)](/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms), [the mssql extension with Visual Studio Code](/sql/tools/visual-studio-code/mssql-extensions?view=fabric&preserve-view=true), and even GitHub Copilot.

Mirrored databases also offer one-click integration with Microsoft Power BI within Fabric, enabling rapid report creation directly from the mirrored data or SQL analytics endpoint.

## Network requirements

<!-- Maintain similar content in docs\database\mirrored-database\azure-database-postgresql-tutorial.md and docs\database\mirrored-database\azure-database-postgresql-limitations.md -->

Mirroring supports both publicly accessible servers and network-isolated configurations, including servers connected via private endpoints or hosted in virtual networks. If your Flexible Server is not publicly accessible and doesn't [allow Azure services](/azure/azure-sql/database/network-access-controls-overview#allow-azure-services) to connect to it, you can [create a virtual network data gateway](/data-integration/vnet/create-data-gateways) to mirror the data. Make sure the Azure Virtual Network or the gateway machine's network can connect to the Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server via a private endpoint or is allowed by the firewall rule.

## Active transactions, workloads, and replicator engine behaviors

Active transactions continue to hold the write ahead log (WAL) truncation until the transaction commits and the mirrored Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server catches up, or the transaction aborts. Long-running transactions might result in the WAL filling up more than usual. WAL on source Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server should be monitored so that storage does not fill up. For more information, see [WAL grows due to long-running transactions and CDC](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-logical#monitor).

Each user workload varies. During initial snapshot, there might be more resource usage on the source database, for both CPU and IOPS (input/output operations per second, to read the pages). Table updates/delete operations can lead to increased log generation. Learn more on how to [monitor resources for your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-monitoring).

## Compute tier support

The source Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server can be either a General Purpose or Memory Optimized compute tier. Burstable compute tier is not supported as source for mirroring.

To know more about compute tiers available in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server, see [Compute options in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-compute).

## High availability support

Mirroring supports highly available Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server configurations. Replication continues seamlessly across failover events without requiring additional configuration. For any specific limitations or considerations, see [Limitations in Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server](../mirroring/azure-database-postgresql-limitations.md).

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server](../mirroring/azure-database-postgresql-tutorial.md)

## Related content

- [How to: Secure data Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server](../mirroring/azure-database-postgresql-how-to-data-security.md)
- [Limitations in Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server](../mirroring/azure-database-postgresql-limitations.md)
- [Monitor Fabric mirrored database replication](../mirroring/monitor.md)
- [Troubleshoot Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server](../mirroring/azure-database-postgresql-troubleshoot.md)
