---
title: "Microsoft Fabric Mirrored Databases From Azure Cosmos DB"
description: Learn about the mirrored databases from Azure Cosmos DB in Microsoft Fabric.
author: markjbrown
ms.author: mjbrown
ms.reviewer: jmaldonado
ms.date: 12/03/2025
ms.topic: overview
ms.custom:
ms.search.form: Fabric Mirroring
no-loc: [Copilot]
---

# Mirroring Azure Cosmos DB

[Mirroring in Microsoft Fabric](../mirroring/overview.md) provides a seamless no-ETL experience to integrate your existing Azure Cosmos DB data with the rest of your data in Microsoft Fabric for true Hybrid Transactional/Analytical Processing (HTAP) with complete workload isolation between transactional and analytical systems.
Your Azure Cosmos DB data is continuously replicated directly into Fabric OneLake in near real-time, without any performance impact on your transactional workloads or consuming Request Units (RUs). 

Data in OneLake is stored in the open-source delta format and automatically made available to all analytical engines on Fabric. 

You can use built-in Power BI capabilities to access data in OneLake in DirectLake mode. With Copilot enhancements in Fabric, you can use the power of generative AI to get key insights on your business data. 
In addition to Power BI, you can use T-SQL to run complex aggregate queries or use Spark for data exploration. You can seamlessly access the data in notebooks and use data science to build machine learning models.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Currently, only Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL accounts are supported.

## Why use mirroring in Fabric?

With Mirroring in Fabric, you don't need to piece together different services from multiple vendors. Instead, you can enjoy a highly integrated, end-to-end, and easy-to-use product that is designed to simplify your analytics needs and built for openness.

If you're looking for BI reporting or analytics on your operational data in Azure Cosmos DB, mirroring provides:

- No-ETL, cost-effective near real-time access to your Azure Cosmos DB data without effecting your request unit consumption
- Ease of bringing data across various sources into Fabric OneLake
- Delta table optimizations with v-order for lightning-fast reads
- One-click integration with Power BI with Direct Lake and Copilot
- Rich business insights by joining data across various sources
- Richer app integration to access queries and views

OneLake data is stored in the open-source Delta Lake format, allowing you to use it with various solutions within and outside of Microsoft. This data format helps make it easier to build a single data estate for your analytical needs.

## What analytics experiences are built in?

Mirrored databases are an item in **Fabric Data Warehousing** distinct from the **Warehouse** and **SQL analytics endpoint**.

:::image type="content" source="media/azure-cosmos-db/fabric-mirroring-cosmos-db.svg" alt-text="Diagram of Fabric Mirroring for Azure Cosmos DB.":::

Every Mirrored Azure Cosmos DB item creates these items you can interact with in your Fabric workspace:  

- The mirrored database item. Mirroring manages the replication of data into [OneLake](../onelake/onelake-overview.md) and conversion to Parquet, in an analytics-ready format. This enables downstream scenarios like data engineering, data science, and more.
- [SQL analytics endpoint](../data-warehouse/get-started-lakehouse-sql-analytics-endpoint.md), which is automatically generated

### Mirrored database

The mirrored database shows the replication status and the controls to stop or start replication in Fabric OneLake. You can also view your source database, in read-only mode, using the Azure Cosmos DB data explorer. Using data explorer, you can view your containers in your source Azure Cosmos DB database and query them. These operations consume request units (RUs) from your Azure Cosmos DB account. Any changes to the source database are reflected immediately in Fabric's source database view. Writing to the source database isn't allowed from Fabric, as you can only view the data.  

### SQL analytics endpoint
Each mirrored database has an autogenerated SQL analytics endpoint that provides a rich analytical experience on top of the OneLake's Delta tables created by the mirroring process. You have access to familiar T-SQL commands that can define and query data objects but not manipulate the data from the SQL analytics endpoint, as it's a read-only copy.  

You can perform the following actions in the SQL analytics endpoint:

- Explore Delta Lake tables using T-SQL. Each table is mapped to a container from your Azure Cosmos DB database.
- Create no-code queries and views and explore them visually without writing a line of code.
- Join and query data in other mirrored databases, Warehouses, and Lakehouses in the same workspace.
- You can easily visualize and build BI reports based on SQL queries or views. 

In addition to the [SQL query editor](../data-warehouse/sql-query-editor.md), there's a broad ecosystem of tooling. These tools include [the mssql extension with Visual Studio Code](/sql/tools/visual-studio-code/mssql-extensions?view=fabric&preserve-view=true), [SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)](/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms), and even GitHub Copilot. You can supercharge analysis and insights generation from the tool of your choice.

### Semantic model

You can create a Power BI Semantic Model on the database to allow business metrics to be created, shared, and reused. For more information, see [Create a Power BI semantic model](../data-warehouse/create-semantic-model.md).

## How does near real-time replication work?

When you enable mirroring on your Azure Cosmos DB database, inserts, update, and delete operations on your online transaction processing (OLTP) data continuously replicates into Fabric OneLake for analytics consumption.

The [continuous backup](/azure/cosmos-db/continuous-backup-restore-introduction) feature is a prerequisite for mirroring. You can enable either 7-day or 30-day continuous backup on your Azure Cosmos DB account.
If you are enabling continuous backup specifically for mirroring, 7-day continuous backup is recommended, as it is free of cost.

> [!NOTE]
> Mirroring does not use Azure Cosmos DB's analytical store or change feed as a change data capture source. You can continue to use these capabilities independently, along with mirroring.

It could take a few minutes to replicate your Azure Cosmos DB Data into Fabric OneLake. Depending on your data's initial snapshot or the frequency of updates/deletes, replication could also take longer in some cases. Replication doesn't affect the request units (RUs) you allocated for your transactional workloads.

## What to expect from mirroring

There are a few considerations and supported scenarios you should consider before mirroring.

### Setup considerations

To mirror a database, it should already be provisioned in Azure. You must enable continuous backup on the account as a prerequisite.

- You can only mirror each database individually at a time. You can choose which database to mirror.
- You can mirror the same database multiple times within the same workspace. As a best practice, a single copy of database can be reused across lakehouses, warehouses, or other mirrored databases. You don't need to set up multiple mirrors to the same database.
- You can also mirror the same database across different Fabric workspaces or tenants.
- You can select which containers to mirror within your database.
- Changes to Azure Cosmos DB containers, such as adding new containers and deleting existing ones, are replicated seamlessly to Fabric. You can start mirroring an empty database with no containers, for example, and mirroring seamlessly picks up the containers added at a later point in time.

### Support for nested data

Nested data is shown as a JSON string in SQL analytics endpoint tables. You can use `OPENJSON`, `CROSS APPLY`, and `OUTER APPLY` in T-SQL queries or views to expand this data selectively. If you're using Power Query, you can also apply the `ToJson` function to expand this data.

Through auto schema inference, nested data can be flattened through `OPENJSON` without having to explicitly define the nested schema. This is especially useful for workloads with dynamic or unpredictable nested schemas. For more information, see [how to query nested data](../mirroring/azure-cosmos-db-how-to-query-nested.md).

### Handle schema changes

Mirroring automatically replicates properties across Azure Cosmos DB items, with schema changes. Any new properties discovered in an item are shown as new columns and the missing properties, if any, is represented as null in Fabric.

If you rename a property in an item, Fabric tables retain both the old and new columns. The old column will show null and the new one will show the latest value, for any items that are replicated after the renaming operation.

If you change the data type of a property in Azure Cosmos DB items, the changes are supported for compatible data types that can be converted. If the data types aren't compatible for conversion in Delta, they're represented as null values.

SQL analytics endpoint tables convert Delta data types to T-SQL data types.

### Duplicate column names

Azure Cosmos DB supports case-insensitive column names, based on the JSON standard. Mirroring supports these duplicate column names by adding `_n` to the column name, where `n` would be a numeric value.

For example, if the Azure Cosmos DB item has `addressName` and `AddressName` as unique properties, Fabric tables have corresponding `addressName` and `AddressName_1` columns. For more information, see [replication limitations](azure-cosmos-db-limitations.md#replication-limitations).

### Support for AI Workloads

Azure Cosmos DB Mirroring supports accounts that use vector search and indexing, allowing AI and machine learning workloads to take full advantage of Microsoft Fabric's powerful analytics—while continuing to leverage Azure Cosmos DB's high-performance vector capabilities.

For more details, explore the documentation on [Vector Search and Indexing for Cosmos DB](/azure/cosmos-db/nosql/vector-search) and [Fabric Data Science and AI Experiences](../data-science/index.yml).

## Security

You can connect to a source account using Microsoft Entra ID and role-based access control or account-level keys.

If you use keys and rotate or regenerate the keys, you need to update the connections to ensure replication works. For more information, see [connections](../data-factory/connector-azure-cosmosdb-for-nosql.md). Account keys aren't directly visible to other Fabric users once the connection is set up. You can limit who has access to the connections created in Fabric. Writes aren't permitted to Azure Cosmos DB database either from the data explorer or analytics endpoint in your mirrored database. Mirroring doesn't currently support authentication using read-only account keys.

For Microsoft Entra ID authentication, the following RBAC permissions are required: `Microsoft.DocumentDB/databaseAccounts/readMetadata` &amp; `Microsoft.DocumentDB/databaseAccounts/readAnalytics`. For more information, see [data plane role-based access control documentation](/azure/cosmos-db/nosql/how-to-grant-data-plane-access).

> [!TIP]
> Once data is replicated into Fabric OneLake, you should also secure access to this data.

### Data protection features

Granular security can be configured in the mirrored database in Microsoft Fabric. For more information, see [granular permissions in Microsoft Fabric](../data-warehouse/sql-granular-permissions.md).

You can secure column filters and predicate-based row filters on tables to roles and users in Microsoft Fabric:

- [Row-level security in Fabric data warehousing](../data-warehouse/row-level-security.md)
- [Column-level security in Fabric data warehousing](../data-warehouse/column-level-security.md)

You can also mask sensitive data from non admin users using dynamic data masking:

- [Dynamic data masking in Fabric data warehousing](../data-warehouse/dynamic-data-masking.md)

### Network security

Azure Cosmos DB accounts with virtual networks or private endpoints are supported with Fabric mirroring using the Network ACL Bypass feature. This allows your authorized Fabric workspace to access the Cosmos DB account without requiring a data gateway, while maintaining enhanced network security. For detailed configuration instructions, see [Configure private networks for Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Cosmos DB](azure-cosmos-db-private-network.md).

Currently, mirroring doesn't support customer managed keys (CMK) on OneLake.

## Disaster recovery and replication latency

In Fabric, you can deploy content to data centers in regions other than the home region of the Fabric tenant. For more information, see [multi-geo support](../admin/service-admin-premium-multi-geo.md).

For an Azure Cosmos DB account with a primary write region and multiple read regions, mirroring chooses the Azure Cosmos DB read region closest to the region where Fabric capacity is configured. This selection helps provide low-latency replication for mirroring.

When you switch your Azure Cosmos DB account to a recovery region, mirroring automatically selects the nearest Azure Cosmos DB region again.

> [!NOTE]
> Mirroring does not support accounts with multiple write regions.

Your Cosmos DB data replicated to OneLake need to be configured to handle region-wide outages. For more information, see [disaster recovery in OneLake](../onelake/onelake-disaster-recovery.md).

## Explore your data with mirroring

You can directly view and access mirrored data in OneLake. You can also seamlessly access mirrored data without further data movement.

Learn more on how to access OneLake using [ADLS Gen2 APIs or SDK](../onelake/onelake-access-api.md), the [OneLake File explorer](../onelake/onelake-file-explorer.md), and [Azure Storage explorer](../onelake/onelake-azure-storage-explorer.md).

You can connect to the SQL analytics endpoint from tools such as SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) or using drivers like Microsoft Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) and Java Database Connectivity (JDBC). For more information, see [SQL analytics endpoint connectivity](../data-warehouse/connectivity.md).

You can also access mirrored data with services such as:

- Azure services like Azure Databricks, Azure HDInsight, or Azure Synapse Analytics
- Fabric Lakehouse using shortcuts for data engineering and data science scenarios
- Other mirrored databases or warehouses in the Fabric workspace

You can also build medallion architecture solutions, cleaning and transforming the data that is landing into mirrored database as the bronze layer. For more information, see [medallion architecture support in Fabric](../onelake/onelake-medallion-lakehouse-architecture.md).

## Pricing

Fabric compute used to replicate your Cosmos DB data into Fabric OneLake is free. Storage in OneLake is free of cost based the capacity size. For more information, see [OneLake pricing for mirroring](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/microsoft-fabric/). The compute usage for querying data via SQL, Power BI, or Spark is still charged based on the Fabric Capacity. 

If you're using the data explorer in Fabric mirroring, you accrue typical costs based on request unit (RU) usage to explore the containers and query the items in the source Azure Cosmos DB database. The Azure Cosmos DB continuous backup feature is a prerequisite to mirroring: Standard charges for continuous backup apply. There are no additional charges for mirroring on continuous backup billing. For more information, see [Azure Cosmos DB pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cosmos-db).

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Cosmos DB](../mirroring/azure-cosmos-db-tutorial.md)

## Related content

- [Limitations in Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Cosmos DB](../mirroring/azure-cosmos-db-limitations.md)
- [FAQ: Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from Azure Cosmos DB](../mirroring/azure-cosmos-db-faq.yml)
