---
title: "Microsoft Fabric Mirrored Databases From SAP (Preview)"
description: Learn about the mirrored databases from SAP in Microsoft Fabric.
ms.reviewer: jingwang
ms.date: 11/03/2025
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.search.form: Fabric Mirroring
---

# Mirroring SAP (Preview)

[Mirroring in Fabric](overview.md) offers a simple way to avoid complex ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) processes and seamlessly integrate your existing SAP estate with the rest of your data in Fabric. You can continuously replicate your SAP data directly into Fabric’s OneLake. Once in Fabric, you can take advantage of powerful capabilities for business intelligence, AI, data engineering, data science, and data sharing.

[!INCLUDE [preview-note](../includes/feature-preview-note.md)]

## Why use mirroring in Fabric?

With Mirroring in Fabric, you don't need to piece together different services from multiple vendors. Instead, you can enjoy a highly integrated, end-to-end, and easy-to-use product that is designed to simplify your analytics needs, and built for openness and collaboration between Microsoft, SAP, and the 1000s of technology solutions that can read the open-source Delta Lake table format.

## What analytics experiences are built in?

Mirroring creates two items in your Fabric workspace:

- The mirrored database item. Mirroring manages the replication of data into [OneLake](../onelake/onelake-overview.md) and conversion to Parquet, in an analytics-ready format. Mirroring enables downstream scenarios like data engineering, data science, and more. Mirrored databases are distinct from warehouse and SQL analytics endpoint items.
- A [SQL analytics endpoint](../data-warehouse/get-started-lakehouse-sql-analytics-endpoint.md).

Each mirrored SAP database has an autogenerated **SQL analytics endpoint** that provides a rich analytical experience on top of the Delta Tables created by the mirroring process. Users have access to familiar T-SQL commands that can define and query data objects but not manipulate the data from the SQL analytics endpoint, as it's a read-only copy. You can perform the following actions in the SQL analytics endpoint:

- Explore the tables that reference data in your Delta Lake tables from SAP.
- Create no code queries and views and explore data visually without writing a line of code.
- Develop SQL views, inline TVFs (Table-valued Functions), and stored procedures to encapsulate your semantics and business logic in T-SQL.
- Manage permissions on the objects.
- Query data in other Warehouses and Lakehouses in the same workspace.

In addition to the [SQL query editor](../data-warehouse/sql-query-editor.md), there's a broad ecosystem of tooling that can query the SQL analytics endpoint, including [SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)](/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms), [the mssql extension with Visual Studio Code](/sql/tools/visual-studio-code/mssql-extensions?view=fabric&preserve-view=true), and even GitHub Copilot.

## Mirroring for SAP via SAP Datasphere

Mirroring for SAP combines the replication capabilities of [SAP Datasphere](https://www.sap.com/products/data-cloud/datasphere.html) with the Fabric mirroring. In a two-step process, SAP Datasphere replication flow extracts data (initial snapshot and changed records) from your SAP source system and lands it in an Azure Data Lake Storage (ADLS) Gen2 container. The mirroring replication engine then connects to that storage container and continuously merges the data with the mirrored database tables in OneLake.

This solution supports all types of SAP sources offered by SAP Datasphere, including SAP S/4HANA, SAP ECC, SAP BW/4HANA, SAP BW, and SAP Datasphere itself.

For a tutorial on configuring your mirrored SAP in Fabric, see [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from SAP via SAP Datasphere](sap-datasphere-tutorial.md).

:::image type="content" source="media/sap/sap-datasphere-mirroring-diagram.svg" alt-text="Diagram that shows the SAP mirroring solution overview with data flow from SAP to ADLS Gen2 via SAP Datasphere and to OneLake via the Fabric mirroring." lightbox="media/sap/sap-datasphere-mirroring-diagram.svg":::

## SAP mirroring cost considerations

Fabrics compute used to replicate your data into Fabric OneLake is free. The Mirroring storage cost is free up to a limit based on capacity. For more information, see [Cost of mirroring](overview.md#cost-of-mirroring) and [Microsoft Fabric Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/microsoft-fabric/). The compute for querying data using SQL, Power BI, or Spark is charged at regular rates.

Fabric doesn't charge for network data ingress fees into OneLake for Mirroring.

SAP Datasphere Premium Outbound Integration pricing applies when mirroring SAP data via SAP Datasphere.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from SAP via SAP Datasphere](sap-datasphere-tutorial.md)
