---
title: Microsoft Fabric Mirrored SharePoint List (Preview)
description: Learn how to configure Mirroring in Microsoft Fabric to replicate SharePoint data into OneLake, enabling analytics-ready Delta Lake tables.
ms.reviewer: sbahadur
ms.date: 03/02/2026
ms.topic: overview
---

# Mirroring SharePoint List in Microsoft Fabric (preview)

[!INCLUDE [feature-preview-note](../includes/feature-preview-note.md)]

[Mirroring in Fabric](overview.md) provides an easy experience to avoid complex ETL (Extract Transform Load) and integrate your existing Sharepoint List data with the rest of your data in Microsoft Fabric. You can continuously replicate your existing SharePoint data directly into Fabric's OneLake. Inside Fabric, you can unlock powerful business intelligence, artificial intelligence, Data Engineering, Data Science, and data sharing scenarios.

## What analytics experiences are built in?

Mirrored databases are an item in **Fabric Data Warehousing** distinct from the **Warehouse** and **SQL analytics endpoint**.

:::image type="content" source="media/sharepoint-list/mirroring-analytics-experiences.png" alt-text="Screenshot of mirrored database items in a Fabric workspace.":::

Mirroring creates these items in your Fabric workspace:

- The mirrored database item. This item enables downstream scenarios like data engineering, data science, and more. Mirroring manages:’
- The replication of Document Library metadata into [OneLake](/fabric/onelake/onelake-overview) using shortcuts to the storage that contains your Document Library tables. OneLake automatically converts these Document Library tables to Delta Lake formatted tables for use across Fabric workloads.
- The replication of managed table data into [OneLake](/fabric/onelake/onelake-overview) and conversion to Parquet, in an analytics-ready format.
- A [SQL analytics endpoint](/fabric/data-warehouse/get-started-lakehouse-sql-analytics-endpoint)

Each mirrored database has an autogenerated **SQL analytics endpoint** that provides a rich analytical experience on top of the Delta Tables created by the mirroring process. Users have access to familiar T-SQL commands that can define and query data objects but can't manipulate the data from the SQL analytics endpoint, as it's a read-only copy. You can perform the following actions in the SQL analytics endpoint:

- Explore the tables that reference data in your Delta Lake tables from Snowflake.
- Create no code queries and views and explore data visually without writing a line of code.
- Develop SQL views, inline TVFs (Table-valued Functions), and stored procedures to encapsulate your semantics and business logic in T-SQL.
- Manage permissions on the objects.
- Query data in other Warehouses and Lakehouses in the same workspace.

In addition to the [SQL query editor](/fabric/data-warehouse/sql-query-editor), there's a broad ecosystem of tooling that can query the SQL analytics endpoint, including [SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)](/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms), [the mssql extension with Visual Studio Code](/sql/tools/visual-studio-code/mssql-extensions?view=fabric&preserve-view=true), and even GitHub Copilot.

## Cost overview

There's no charge for these components:

- The compute used to replicate your data to OneLake
- OneLake storage based on capacity size

You pay only for the compute you use when querying data through SQL, Power BI, or Spark, based on your Fabric Capacity.

For more information, see [mirroring costs](/fabric/mirroring/overview#cost-of-mirroring) and [OneLake pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/microsoft-fabric/).

## Related content

For a tutorial on configuring your Snowflake database for Mirroring in Fabric, see [Tutorial: Configure Microsoft Fabric mirrored databases from SharePoint List](sharepoint-list-tutorial.md).