---
title: Generate Real-Time Dashboard Using Copilot
description: Learn how to create insightful Real-Time Dashboard from your data using Copilot
author: hzargari-ms
ms.author: v-hzargari
ms.reviewer: mibar
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom:
ms.date: 06/19/2025
ms.update-cycle: 180-days
no-loc: [Copilot]
ms.collection: ce-skilling-ai-copilot
---

# Generate Real-Time Dashboard Using Copilot

Copilot makes it easy to create dashboards by automating the initial setup, eliminating the need for technical expertise. The process includes selecting a data table in Real-Time Hub or KQL Queryset and using AI to generate a Real-Time Dashboard, that includes an insights page for a quick overview, and a data profile page.

For billing information about Copilot, see [Announcing Copilot in Fabric pricing](https://blog.fabric.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/announcing-fabric-copilot-pricing-2/).

## Prerequisites

* A [workspace](../fundamentals/create-workspaces.md) with a Microsoft Fabric-enabled [capacity](../enterprise/licenses.md#capacity)

* Write access to a [KQL queryset](../real-time-intelligence/kusto-query-set.md) or [Real-Time Dashboard](../real-time-intelligence/dashboard-real-time-create.md)

[!INCLUDE [copilot-note-include](../includes/copilot-note-include.md)]

## Creating a Real-Time Dashboard with Copilot

There are several ways to create a Real-Time Dashboard using Copilot:

* **From the Real-Time Hub**: You can create a dashboard directly from the Real-Time Hub by selecting a data stream and then a table.
* **From the KQL Queryset**: You can create a dashboard from a KQL Queryset by selecting a table.

1. Click the three dots next to the table name and select **Create Real-Time Dashboard**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/copilot-real-time-dashboard/three-dots.png" alt-text="Screenshot of selecting the data source." lightbox="media/copilot-real-time-dashboard/three-dots.png":::

1. In the dialog box, click **Get started** to proceed. You can stop the process at any time while the dashboard is being created.

    :::image type="content" source="media/copilot-real-time-dashboard/dialog.png" alt-text="Screenshot of copilot dialog." lightbox="media/copilot-real-time-dashboard/dialog.png":::

## Dashboard Overview

### Insights Page and Data Profile Page

The Insights Page and Data Profile Page are automatically generated by Copilot. The Insights Page provides a quick overview of the data, while the Data Profile Page offers detailed information about the data structure and statistics.

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-real-time-dashboard/insights.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Insights page in Real-Time Dashboard." lightbox="media/copilot-real-time-dashboard/insights.png":::

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-real-time-dashboard/profile.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the data profile page." lightbox="media/copilot-real-time-dashboard/profile.png":::


## Related content

* [Privacy, security, and responsible use of Copilot for Real-Time Intelligence (preview)](copilot-real-time-intelligence-privacy-security.md)
* [Copilot for Microsoft Fabric: FAQ](copilot-faq-fabric.yml)
* [Overview of Copilot in Fabric (preview)](copilot-fabric-overview.md)
* [Query data in a KQL queryset](../real-time-intelligence/kusto-query-set.md)